docs: timeouts and thresholds for outside mesh connections (#1139)
kumahq/kuma-website: app/docs/dev/networking/non-mesh-traffic.md

---
title: Non-mesh traffic
---

> In its default setup, {{site.mesh_product_name}} allows any non-mesh traffic to pass Envoy without applying any policy. 

Reviewer: Should we split this in 2? Incoming and Outgoing traffic?

I feel like it would be useful to cover incoming traffic too? Questions about this come up now and then.
Say something about impossible with mtls, link to permissive. Say that without transparent proxy people can bypass if you don't protect...

For instance if a service needs to send a request to `http://example.com`, 
all requests won't be logged even if a traffic logging is enabled in the mesh where the service is deployed.
The passthrough mode is enabled by default on all the dataplane proxies in transparent mode in a Mesh. 
This behavior can be changed by setting the `networking.outbound.passthrough` in the Mesh resource. Example:

{% tabs passthrough-mode useUrlFragment=false %}
{% tab passthrough-mode Kubernetes %}
```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  networking:
    outbound:
      passthrough: false
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab passthrough-mode Universal %}
```yaml
type: Mesh
name: default
networking:
  outbound:
    passthrough: false
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

When `networking.outbound.passthrough` is `false`, no traffic to any non-mesh resource can leave the Mesh.

{% tip %}

> Before turning this feature on, double-check Envoy stats that no traffic is flowing through `pass_through` cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before turning this feature off, double-check Envoy stats that no traffic is flowing through `pass_through` cluster. 
```
It's setting `passthrough=false` that's dangerous right?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before setting `networking.outbound.passthrough` to `false`, double-check Envoy stats that no traffic is flowing through `pass_through` cluster. 
```

For instance if a service needs to send a request to `http://example.com`, 
all requests won't be logged even if a traffic logging is enabled in the mesh where the service is deployed.
The passthrough mode is enabled by default on all the dataplane proxies in transparent mode in a Mesh. 
This behavior can be changed by setting the `networking.outbound.passthrough` in the Mesh resource. Example:

{% tabs passthrough-mode useUrlFragment=false %}
{% tab passthrough-mode Kubernetes %}
```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  networking:
    outbound:
      passthrough: false
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab passthrough-mode Universal %}
```yaml
type: Mesh
name: default
networking:
  outbound:
    passthrough: false
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

When `networking.outbound.passthrough` is `false`, no traffic to any non-mesh resource can leave the Mesh.

{% tip %}
Before turning this feature on, double-check Envoy stats that no traffic is flowing through `pass_through` cluster. 
Otherwise, you will block the traffic which may cause the instability of the system.
{% endtip %}

> ### Policies don't apply to the non-mesh traffic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Policies don't apply to non-mesh traffic
```

> If you need to change configuration for the non-mesh traffic 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to change configuration for non-mesh traffic 
```
